
Skip navigation

Skip to main content

Home

Documentation
Solutions

Blogs
Your apps
Your integrations
Search Connect APIs documentation
/

Getting started
Overview
Quickstart
Creating integrations
Reference apps
Dev MCP server
Fundamentals
API requests & responses
Authentication
API versions
Canva concepts
Security
Shared responsibility model
Examples
Autofill guide
Return navigation guide
Guidelines
Brand
Recommended practices
User interface
Distributing integrations
Submission checklist
Submitting integrations
API reference
Authentication
Assets
Autofill
Brand templates
Comments
Designs
Design imports
Exports
Folders
Resizes
Users
Keys
Webhooks
Webhook notifications
Appendix
Scopes
Capabilities
Error responses
Changelog
Canva AI Connector
Authentication

Copy page

To start using the Canva Connect APIs, you need to authorize your users using OAuth 2.0.

OAuth lets your integration authenticate the user, get their authorization to access the Connect API endpoints, and then perform actions on their behalf. Specifically, the Connect APIs use OAuth 2.0 with the Authorization Code flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) using SHA-256.

The authorization and authentication process involves the following steps:

Obtain authorization from the Canva user for the scopes that your integration requires. After the user authorizes your integration, you'll receive an authorization code at your specified redirect URL.
Use the authorization code to generate access tokens, which lets your integration access Connect API resources. This lets your integration act on the user's behalf.
There are libraries in various languages that provide support for handling the OAuth process. For more information, see the OAuth Community Site.

You can also use the Canva Connect API Starter Kit as a starting point for an authorization and authentication implementation.

Prerequisites
Before authenticating to the Canva Connect APIs, you must first create and configure your integration in the Developer Portal, including:

Setting an integration name
Generating and saving a client secret
Selecting scopes
Setting at least one authentication redirect URL
For more information, see Creating integrations.

Obtain user authorization
To obtain user authorization, you must direct your users to Canva's authorization URL. This lets a user review and approve access for your integration.

Create the authorization URL
The authorization URL that you direct users to is in the following format:

https://www.canva.com/api/oauth/authorize?code_challenge=<code challenge string>&code_challenge_method=s256&scope=<list of scopes>&response_type=code&client_id=<client ID>&state=<optional state>&redirect_uri=<redirect uri for your integration>

Copy
In your integration's settings in the Developer Portal, there is an Authorization URL generator tool on the Authentication page that pre-fills most of the parameters for an authorization URL. If you use this tool, you must still provide your own code_challenge and state values, as well as verify the values for the other query parameters.

Create the URL, starting with https://www.canva.com/api/oauth/authorize? and add the following query parameters:

code_challenge

The code_challenge string you provide is derived from another string, a code_verifier. You must first create a code_verifier value, and then transform the code_verifier into the code_challenge string. For more information, see the PKCE specification.

Create the code_verifier string. It must be a high-entropy cryptographically random string that is between 43 and 128 characters long. Only ASCII letters, numbers, and -, ., _, or ~ characters are allowed.

You must securely store the code_verifier string in your client, because you'll use it later to generate an access token.

The code_verifier value must not be accessible by the user or their browser.

Generate the code_challenge string by SHA-256 hashing the code_verifier value and then encoding that result into a URL-safe base64 string.

You can use the sample code shown below to generate the code_verifier and code_challenge strings.

The code_verifier and code_challenge values should be unique for each request.

code_challenge_method

This must be set to S256 (SHA-256).

scope

This is a space-separated list of scopes requested by your integration.

The scopes you request must already be set in your integration settings in the Developer Portal. You can't request any scopes you haven't set in your integration's settings. For information on setting scopes, see Creating integrations.

You must be explicit when listing scopes.

For example, specifying asset:write doesn't grant asset:read permissions. You must specify both in the scope string, for example: asset:read asset:write.

response_type

This must be set to code.

client_id

This value is the unique ID that identifies your client. You can get this value from your integration settings in the Developer Portal.

state (Optional)

The state parameter serves two primary purposes:

It acts as a countermeasure against Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks by maintaining a unique session state between your integration and the Canva API. For more information, see the OWASP Cross-Site Request Forgery Prevention Cheat Sheet.
It helps preserve the application state through the OAuth flow.
Although this parameter is optional to include in the authorization URL, it's highly recommended. It makes sure that the response your integration receives corresponds to the request initiated by the user, thereby preventing bad actors from forging requests.

When creating the state value, it must be a high-entropy random string and it should be unique for each request. You can use the sample code shown below to generate the state string.

You must securely store the state string in your client, so you can use it later to verify the response.

The state parameter must not be used to store the code_verifier value.

redirect_uri (Optional)

This is the URL to redirect the user to after they authorize your integration.

Although this parameter is optional to include in the authorization URL, you must have at least one redirect URL set in your integration settings in the Developer Portal. The URL set in this query parameter must be one that you have already set in your integration settings.

If you have only one redirect URL set in your integration settings, you don't need to provide this parameter.

If you have multiple redirect URLs set in your integration settings and this query parameter isn't supplied in the authorization URL, then the first redirect URL that's set in your integration's settings is used by default.

After adding the preceding query parameters, an example authorization URL might look similar to the following:

https://www.canva.com/api/oauth/authorize?code_challenge=eeeAbcdefgh123456789Vz96F9UIv8EHwnmibz3Djx3EE&code_challenge_method=s256&scope=asset:read%20asset:write%20design:meta:read%20folder:read%20comment:write&response_type=code&client_id=OCABC12-DeF

Example code for code_verifier & code_challenge strings
You can use the following sample code to generate the code_verifier and code_challenge strings.

import crypto from "crypto";
const codeVerifier = crypto.randomBytes(96).toString("base64url");
const codeChallenge = crypto
  .createHash("sha256")
  .update(codeVerifier)
  .digest("base64url");
JS

Copy
Example code for state string
import crypto from "crypto";
const state = crypto.randomBytes(96).toString("base64url");
JS

Copy
Send the user to the authorization URL
You must direct your users to the authorization URL that you created to get their approval for your integration and the requested scopes.

They will see a prompt similar to the following:

User authorization prompt

After they authorize your integration, they are redirected to your redirect URL with the following query parameters:

code
Required
The authorization code you can use to generate an access token.

state
Optional
The value of the state parameter, if it was provided with the initial request.

To prevent forgery of cross-site requests, you must verify that the received state value matches the one in the authorization URL you sent to the user. If they don't match, you must stop the authorization flow and return an error to the user.

Generate access tokens
After you've obtained user authorization and received an authorization code, you can exchange the code for an access token (that lets you act on the user's behalf) and a refresh token (that you can use to get new access tokens).

Because access tokens are only valid for a short period time, you can handle requesting new access tokens using a refresh token instead of having to re-authorize the user to get a new authorization code.

An overview of the token request process is shown in the diagram below:

Diagram showing the token request flow, adapted from OAuth 2.0 specification
Token request flow (Adapted from the OAuth 2.0 specification).
Requests that require authenticating with your client ID and client secret can't be made from a web-browser client. They must come from your backend, otherwise they'll be blocked by Canva's Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy.

Use an authorization code
To exchange an authorization code for an access token, use the Generate an access token endpoint.

Some points to note when using the endpoint with an authorization code:

Requests to the endpoint must be authenticated, and we recommend using the basic access authentication method. For basic access authentication, the {credentials} string must be a Base64 encoded value of {client id}:{client secret}.
When exchanging an authorization code for an access token, you must set grant_type to authorization_code .
You must provide the code_verifier value that you generated when creating the user authorization URL.
You must provide the authorization code you received after the user authorized your integration.
The endpoint reference includes example request code in various languages.

A successful response from the endpoint includes the access token, the expiry time for the token, and a refresh token.

Use a refresh token
When an access token expires or becomes invalid, you can use a refresh token from a previous access token request to get a new access token.

Refresh tokens can't be used to access resources on protected APIs. They are only used for generating new access tokens.

To exchange a refresh token for an access token, you again use the Generate an access token endpoint.

Some points to note when using the endpoint with a refresh token:

Requests to the endpoint must be authenticated, and we recommend using the basic access authentication method. For basic access authentication, the {credentials} string must be a Base64 encoded value of {client id}:{client secret}.
When exchanging a refresh token for a new access token, you must set grant_type to refresh_token.
You must provide a refresh token from a previous token request.
Each refresh token can only be used once.
A successful response from the endpoint includes a new access token, the expiry time for the new token, and another refresh token.

Introspect an access token
You can use the Introspect an access token endpoint to see whether an access token or refresh token is valid and active. You can also verify some token properties, such as its claims, scopes, and validity times.

Revoke a token
If necessary, you can use the Revoke a token endpoint to revoke an access token or refresh token.

On this page
Prerequisites
Obtain user authorization
Create the authorization URL
Send the user to the authorization URL
Generate access tokens
Use an authorization code
Use a refresh token
Introspect an access token
Revoke a token

Ask AI
Community
Get Help
GitHub
Was this page useful?

Yes

No

© 2026 All Rights Reserved. Canva®
Privacy policy
Terms
Authentication - Canva Connect APIs DocumentationCopy as Markdown for LLMsRegion: GlobalToggle themeSearch with AI