✅ Team-Based User Acceptance Test for The Happy Hangout
👥 Team-Based Action Tasks
Each team must complete the tasks below based on your function.
Marketing Team - Growth Funnel Testing
Task 1: Customer Registration Journey
Locate customer account sign-up https://thehappyhangout.com/join 
Register as a new customer
Check what happens after sign-up and if you receive an official email for coming onboard (yes received the email)
Questions:
Is registration worth it? I think it would be great to include some small freebie item for people who register
Is the next step obvious? yes

Task 2: Event Registration Flow
Find an upcoming event page https://thehappyhangout.com/upcoming-events 
Attempt to register for an event (im not able to see upcoming events in SG region, so unable to test this)



Confirm the journey feels smooth 
Check for:
Clear event details (date/time/location) 
Strong CTA to register
Confirmation after submission


Task 3: Ask the Expert Series
Locate the Ask the Expert section https://thehappyhangout.com/expert-info 
Evaluate if the content is engaging 
Check if users can submit questions or sign up
Marketing Questions:
Is this discoverable enough? Yes
Would users return for more? Yes if If there’s more attractive services provided, i think lactation consultations, postpartum, child psychologist will be attractive or will have to find out what are the common issues SG parents face the most
Feedbacks: 
https://thehappyhangout.com/expert-info  leads to ‘book a consultation’ instead of ‘ask an expert’. Not sure if its correct? As this task is based on ask the expert series 
Maybe we can write about common issues that most parents face under each topic so they will be interested, something like 
Question type; Is your child facing these issues?
Are you stressed about xx?
Is your baby having a hard time sleeping?



Page overall feedbacks:
1. 
Logo got cut off <
logos seems out of placement


2.  I see this event on the website before signing up/loging in

I think it will be great to include some visuals in the website especially for events/experts/consultation 
For the registration part, I suggest adding another option for those who purchased the baby carrier but haven't given birth yet, if they want to register to join this community? Cause i saw that its a must to fill in children’s birth date to register. Or are we only letting those who have already given birth to register happy hangouts. 
Where can they reach out to us if they have any enquiries regarding the community? Or they will be reaching out to us on WA community
Are they able to redeem anything with their reward points? I saw that they can earn some points for referral  
Clear steps on how to use the redeemed vouchers that we claimed?
